One of the most important characteristics in the ‘Rojo Brillante’ persimmon is the
firmness of its flesh. This quality makes the product more marketable as a firmer
product is preferred by the consumers. This characteristic can be lost during the
post-harvest process as a consequence of the time between the harvest and the
consumption of the product, this deterioration in quality may even be faster as a
consequence of a poor conservation process. To ensure the quality of the product
and to maximize the benefits obtained from the fruit measures of the firmness of
the persimmon are usually carried out, being this measure, at the moment,
obtained with the usage of a texturometer, which at the end of the obtention of the
firmness of the persimmon leaves the fruit fractured and, on doing this, impossible
to sell. This measure is obtained by breaking the flesh of the persimmons by
applying a force on the fruit, this means that this process can only be done to a
small sample of the persimmons of each batch and, using this measures as an
estimation, a global estimation is obtained to be applied to the whole batch,
something that although is a viable approximation and is the way that this process
is done nowadays in multiple industries, clashes with the reality that each sample
is different.
This research proposes the usage of Vis-NIR hyperspectral imaging and machine
learning regression and classification models to estimate in two different ways the
firmness of the persimmons in an individual non-destructive way. This is done
using the foundations left by a previously carried research where different levels of
firmness were found on persimmons. These classes can be used to tackle the
problem as a classification problem, being this the first proposed way to measure
the firmness of the persimmon. Using the force curve obtained with the
texturometer a digital twin was proposed to carry a simulation of this instrument
and, on doing this, transforming this into a regression problem.
The methodology used on this research includes the usage of several machine
learning methods (linear regressor, partial least squares, random forest, neural
networks and convolutional neural networks) and the selection of the most
important wavelengths for the task ahead.
The results were promising in both the cases with an accuracy of 0.98 when using
all the wavelengths measured for a Neural Network and a R² over 0.9 for both the
max and the slope of the regressed force curve using a Convolutional Neural
Network.
